Book (#262)
epiphany-platform/CommonDataLayer: docs/architecture/query_service.md

# Query Service
Each Query Service serves a common set of queries, and translates those into their respective database's query language.
Two query-services are present: one for timeseries databases, and one for documents.

### Technical Description

The query service (`QS` or for example for postgresql its `QSPG`), is responsible for querying data from specific repository. It offers two paths that can be accessed:
First path depends on type of repo

### Communication

> Communication to query service is done through [gRPC][grpc] based on two [endpoints][proto] of querying for data by `SCHEMA_ID` or multiple `OBJECT_ID`s. Query service communicates with multiple databases such as postgresql, druid, sled. Query service also communicates with [schema registry][schema-registry]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Communication to query service is done through [gRPC][grpc] based on two [endpoints][proto] of querying for data by `SCHEMA_ID` or multiple `OBJECT_ID`s. Query service communicates with multiple databases such as postgresql, druid, victoria metrics. Query service also communicates with [schema registry][schema-registry]. 
```
Sled is no longer there
